Linux originated in the 1990s when Linus Torvalds developed a free, open source version of the Unix kernel. 

Linux is multi-user, portable, and supports multitasking. 

Linux is widely used today in mobile devices, desktops, supercomputers, data centers, and cloud servers. 

Linux distributions (also known as distros) differ by their UIs, shell, applications, and how the OS is supported and built. 

The design of a distro is catered toward its specific audience and/or use case. 

Popular Linux distributions include Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), Debian, Ubuntu, Suse (SLES, SLED, OpenSuse), Fedora, Mint, and Arch. 

The Linux system consists of five key layers: user, application, OS, kernel, and hardware. 

The kernel is the lowest-level software and it enables applications to interact with your hardware. 

The shell is an OS-level application for running commands. 

You use a terminal to send commands to the shell. 

You can use the cd command to navigate around your Linux filesystem. 

You can use a variety of command-line or GUI-based text editors such as GNU nano, vim, vi, and gedit. 

Deb and RPM packages contain software updates and installation files. 

You can use GUI-based and command-line package managers to update and install software on Linux systems.

A shell is an interactive user interface 

You can use shell commands for navigating and working with files and directories, and to zip and unzip files 

You can use the “curl” and “wget” commands to display and download files from URLs 

The “echo” command prints string or variable values 

The “cat” and “tail” commands display file contents 

You can get user information with the "whoami" and "id" commands 

You can check system disk usage using the "df" command 

The “ls” command lists all files and directories contained within a specified directory tree 

The “cd” command allows you to navigate directories 

The “touch” command allows you to create a file or update its last–modified timestamp 

The “mkdir” command creates directories and “rmdir” deletes empty directories 

You can determine line, word, and character counts with “wc” 

You can use “grep” to get the lines of a file matching your desired criteria 

The “tar” command decompresses and unpacks a “tar.gz” archive 

You can view network configuration with “hostname” and “ifconfig” 

A shell script is an executable text file that begins with a ‘shebang’ interpreter directive 

Shell scripts are used to run commands and programs and can interpret command line arguments 

Filters are shell commands, and the pipe operator allows you to chain filter commands 

Shell variables can be assigned values with ‘=’ and listed using ‘set’ 

Environment variables are shell variables with extended scope; create with ‘export,’ list with ‘env’ 

Jobs can be scheduled to run periodically at selected times 

‘m h dom mon dow command’ is the cron job syntax 

Command substitution is used to replace a command with its output 

The Bash shell-scripting feature ‘concurrent mode’ allows commands to run in parallel 